Update training tutorial (#11533)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/training.rst

    an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Fine-tuning a pretrained model
=======================================================================================================================

In this tutorial, we will show you how to fine-tune a pretrained model from the Transformers library. In TensorFlow,
models can be directly trained using Keras and the :obj:`fit` method. In PyTorch, there is no generic training loop so
the 🤗 Transformers library provides an API with the class :class:`~transformers.Trainer` to let you fine-tune or train

> from scratch a model easily. Then we will show you how to use write the whole training loop in PyTorch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 a model from scratch easily. Then we will show you how to alternatively write the whole training loop in PyTorch.
```

> Before we can fine-tune a model though, we need a dataset. In this tutorial, we will show you how to fine-tune BERT on
> the `IMDB dataset <https://www.imdb.com/interfaces/>`__: the task is to classify whether movie reviews are positive or
> negative. For examples on other tasks, refer to the :ref:`additional-resources` section!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we can fine-tune a model, we need a dataset. In this tutorial, we will show you how to fine-tune BERT on
the `IMDB dataset <https://www.imdb.com/interfaces/>`__: the task is to classify whether movie reviews are positive or
negative. For examples of other tasks, refer to the :ref:`additional-resources` section!
```

.. _data-processing:

Preparing the datasets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will use the `🤗 Datasets <https:/github.com/huggingface/datasets/>`__ library to download and preprocess the IMDB

> datasets. We wil go other this part pretty quickly, since the focus of this tutorial is on training, you should refer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
datasets. We will go through this part pretty quickly. Since the focus of this tutorial is on training, you should refer
```

to the 🤗 Datasets `documentation <https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/>`__ or the :doc:`preprocessing` tutorial for
more information.

> First, the :obj:`load_dataset` function downloads and caches the dataset in one line of code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we can use the :obj:`load_dataset` function to download and caches the dataset:
```

.. code-block:: python

    from datasets import load_dataset

    raw_datasets = load_dataset("imdb")

This works like the :obj:`from_pretrained` method we saw for the models and tokenizers (except the cache directory is
`~/.cache/huggingface/dataset` by default).

> The :obj:`raw_datasets` objects is a dictionary with three keys: :obj:`"train"`, :obj:`"test"` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :obj:`raw_datasets` object is a dictionary with three keys: :obj:`"train"`, :obj:`"test"` and
```

:obj:`"unsupervised"` (which correspond to the three splits of that dataset). We will use the :obj:`"train"` split for
training and the :obj:`"test"` split for validation.

To preprocess our data, we will need a tokenizer:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import AutoTokenizer

    tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("bert-base-cased")

> As we saw in :doc:`preprocessing`, we can prepare the inputs texts for the model is done with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we saw in :doc:`preprocessing`, we can prepare the text inputs for the model with the following command:
```

.. code-block:: python

>     inputs = tokenizer(sentences, padding="max_length", truncation=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sentences = raw_datasets['train']['text']
    inputs = tokenizer(sentences, padding="max_length", truncation=True)
```

Reviewer: Adding this because `sentences` doesn't exist, but I think I understood what you meant!  I reworded the bit below to emphasize that this is just an example for illustrative purposes.

Author: This wasn't meant to be a code sample you can execute, just an example.

This will make all the samples have the maximum length the model can accept (here 512), either by padding or truncating
them.

> Here, we will apply this function to all the elements of our dataset by using the :obj:`map` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we can instead apply these preprocessing steps to all the splits of our dataset at once by using the :obj:`map` method:
```

.. code-block:: python

    def tokenize_function(examples):
        return tokenizer(examples["text"], padding="max_length", truncation=True)

    tokenized_datasets = raw_datasets.map(tokenize_function, batched=True)

You can learn more about the map method or the other ways to preprocess the data in the 🤗 Datasets `documentation
<https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/>`__.

> The last thing we will do here is to generate a small subset of the training and validation set, to be able to train
> quickly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we will generate a small subset of the training and validation set, to enable faster training:
```

> .. code-block: python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: python
```

Reviewer: this code block was not rendering for me, this fixes it.

>     small_train_dataset = tokenized_datasets["train"].shuffle(seed=42).select(range(1000)) small_eval_dataset =
>     tokenized_datasets["test"].shuffle(seed=42).select(range(1000)) full_train_dataset = tokenized_datasets["train"]
>     full_eval_dataset = tokenized_datasets["test"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    small_train_dataset = tokenized_datasets["train"].shuffle(seed=42).select(range(1000)) 
    small_eval_dataset = tokenized_datasets["test"].shuffle(seed=42).select(range(1000)) 
    full_train_dataset = tokenized_datasets["train"]
    full_eval_dataset = tokenized_datasets["test"]
```

Reviewer: I think you are missing some line breaks

In all the examples below, we will always use :obj:`small_train_dataset` and :obj:`small_eval_dataset`. Just replace
them by their `full` equivalent to train or evaluate on the full dataset.

.. _trainer:

Fine-tuning in PyTorch with Trainer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since PyTorch does not provide a training loop, the 🤗 Transformers library provides a :class:`~transformers.Trainer`
API that is optimized for 🤗 Transformers models, with a wide range of training options and with built-in features like
logging, gradient accumulation, and mixed precision.

First, let's define our model:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification

>     model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("bert-base-cased", num_labels=2)

Reviewer: It would be worth describing in a bit more detail what the implications of `num_labels=2` are:

- Does this grab a pre-trained base and put an un-trained head on it?  Or is the whole thing pre-trained, and we are going to unfreeze just the head, and use the existing [CLS] token to do the binary classification.
- What happens when `num_labels` is greater than 2?  Does this put a different kind of head on?
- etc?

Then, to define our :class:`~transformers.Trainer`, we will need to instantiate a
:class:`~transformers.TrainingArguments`. This class contains all the hyperparameters we can tune for the
:class:`~transformers.Trainer` or the flags to activate the different training options it supports. Let's begin by
using all the defaults, the only thing we then have to provide is a directory in which the checkpoints will be saved:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import TrainingArguments

    training_args = TrainingArguments("test_trainer")

Then we can instantiate a :class:`~transformers.Trainer` like this:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import Trainer

    trainer = Trainer(
        model=model, args=training_args, train_dataset=small_train_dataset, eval_dataset=small_eval_dataset
    )

To fine-tune our model, we just need to call

.. code-block:: python

>     trainer.train()

Reviewer: Some question that could be worth including in this tutorial:

- Does `Trainer` automatically freeze the pre-trained base and unfreeze the head for you by default?  
- Is `Trainer` able to somehow unfreeze the entire model if you like with some kind of parameter?
- If you modify the `requires_grad` parameter of the underlying model does Trainer respect that?
- Is `Trainer` only for PyTorch models?

Author: There is no freezing baked into the `Trainer` as it's not useful for Transformers models (or if it is, no one has found the right way to do it yet). If you pass a model with some parameters with no requires grad, the Trainer will respect that. It does not touch the model apart from putting it eval/training mode.

Reviewer: Wow ok, I didn't know that!  I guess its somewhat surprising that you can fine-tune the whole thing at once even if the head is completely new / randomly initialized.  For some reason, I thought that folks freeze the base and train just the head, and then afterward unfreeze the whole thing -> but maybe that's just some habit I have from non-transformer models?  I guess I have to unlearn a couple of things :)   That's pretty fascinating I will try to read about why this works!  (If you know of anything that explains this please LMK as I would love to learn)

Author: I don't think there are articles studying why it works, on my side it's mostly though various experiments I've noticed this.

is performing however as by default, there is no evaluation during training, and we didn't tell the
:class:`~transformers.Trainer` to compute any metrics. Let's have a look on how to do that now!

To have the :class:`~transformers.Trainer` compute and report metrics, we need to give it a :obj:`compute_metrics`
function that takes predictions and labels (grouped in a namedtuple called :class:`~transformers.EvalPrediction`) and
return a dictionary with string items (the metric names) and float values (the metric values).

The 🤗 Datasets library provides an easy way to get the common metrics used in NLP with the :obj:`load_metric` function.
here we simply use accuracy. Then we define the :obj:`compute_metrics` function that just convert logits to predictions
(remember that all 🤗 Transformers models return the logits) and feed them to :obj:`compute` method of this metric.

.. code-block:: python

    import numpy as np
    from datasets import load_metric

    metric = load_metric("accuracy")

    def compute_metrics(eval_pred):
        logits, labels = eval_pred
        predictions = np.argmax(logits, axis=-1)

>         return metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)

Reviewer: I think this function could be a bit better explained.  For example:

- Is it assumed that this callback always takes a single tuple of two elements?  Is there any situation where this could change?
- When does this callback get called?  
- Is there a link to read more about how this works and how this gets called?

To check if this works on practice, let's create a new :class:`~transformers.Trainer` with our fine-tuned model:

.. code-block:: python

    trainer = Trainer(
        model=model,
        args=training_args,
        train_dataset=small_train_dataset,
        eval_dataset=small_eval_dataset,
        compute_metrics=compute_metrics,
    )
    trainer.evaluate()

which showed an accuracy of 87.5% in our case.

If you want to fine-tune your model and regularly report the evaluation metrics (for instance at the end of each
epoch), here is how you should define your training arguments:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import TrainingArguments

    training_args = TrainingArguments("test_trainer", evaluation_strategy="epoch")

> See the documentation of :class:`~transformers.TrainingArguments` for all the options you can tweak with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the documentation of :class:`~transformers.TrainingArguments` for more options.
```

Reviewer: Do you think that it is worth mentioning the `DataCollatorForTokenClassification`?  I thought that was extremely useful?  Ore even perhaps it might be worth linking to your example notebooks somewhere in this document in order to learn more?

.. _keras:

Fine-tuning with Keras
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Models can also be trained natively in TensorFlow using the Keras API. First, let's define our model:

.. code-block:: python

>     from transformers import TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    import tensorflow as tf
    from transformers import TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification
```

Reviewer: `tf.` is used in the code below

format:

.. code-block:: python

    tf_train_dataset = small_train_dataset.remove_columns(["text"]).with_format("tensorflow")
    tf_eval_dataset = small_eval_dataset.remove_columns(["text"]).with_format("tensorflow")

Then we convert everything in big tensors and use the :obj:`tf.data.Dataset.from_tensor_slices` method:

.. code-block:: python

    train_features = {x: tf_train_dataset[x].to_tensor() for x in tokenizer.model_input_names}
    train_tf_dataset = tf.data.Dataset.from_tensor_slices((train_features, tf_train_dataset["label"]))
    train_tf_dataset = train_tf_dataset.shuffle(len(tf_train_dataset)).batch(8)

    eval_features = {x: tf_eval_dataset[x].to_tensor() for x in tokenizer.model_input_names}
    eval_tf_dataset = tf.data.Dataset.from_tensor_slices((eval_features, tf_eval_dataset["label"]))
    eval_tf_dataset = eval_tf_dataset.batch(8)

With this done, the model can then be compiled and trained as any Keras model:

.. code-block:: python

    model.compile(
        optimizer=tf.keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate=5e-5),
        loss=tf.keras.losses.SparseCategoricalCrossentropy(from_logits=True),
        metrics=tf.metrics.SparseCategoricalAccuracy(),
    )

>     model.fit(train_tf_dataset, validation_data=eval_tf_dataset, epochs=3)

Reviewer: After calling `model.fit` I got these interesting warnings, not sure if it is relevant to HuggingFace, but letting you know out of an abundance of caution

```
Epoch 1/3
WARNING:tensorflow:The parameters `output_attentions`, `output_hidden_states` and `use_cache` cannot be updated when calling a model.They have to be set to True/False in the config object (i.e.: `config=XConfig.from_pretrained('name', output_attentions=True)`).
WARNING:tensorflow:AutoGraph could not transform <bound method Socket.send of <zmq.sugar.socket.Socket object at 0x7fc79c3b7a60>> and will run it as-is.
Please report this to the TensorFlow team. When filing the bug, set the verbosity to 10 (on Linux, `export AUTOGRAPH_VERBOSITY=10`) and attach the full output.
Cause: module, class, method, function, traceback, frame, or code object was expected, got cython_function_or_method
To silence this warning, decorate the function with @tf.autograph.experimental.do_not_convert
WARNING: AutoGraph could not transform <bound method Socket.send of <zmq.sugar.socket.Socket object at 0x7fc79c3b7a60>> and will run it as-is.
Please report this to the TensorFlow team. When filing the bug, set the verbosity to 10 (on Linux, `export AUTOGRAPH_VERBOSITY=10`) and attach the full output.
Cause: module, class, method, function, traceback, frame, or code object was expected, got cython_function_or_method
To silence this warning, decorate the function with @tf.autograph.experimental.do_not_convert
```

With the tight interoperability between TensorFlow and PyTorch models, you can even save the model and then reload it
as a PyTorch model (or vice-versa):

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification

    model.save_pretrained("my_imdb_model")

>     pytorch_model = TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("my_imdb_model", from_tf=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pytorch_model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("my_imdb_model", from_tf=True)
```

You accidentally used the wrong Class here

Reviewer: By the way when running this I got the following warning:

```
All TF 2.0 model weights were used when initializing BertForSequenceClassification.

Some weights of BertForSequenceClassification were not initialized from the TF 2.0 model and are newly initialized: ['bert.embeddings.position_ids']
You should probably TRAIN this model on a down-stream task to be able to use it for predictions and inference.
```

This is odd as we just trained/fine-tuned this model (albeit with TensorFlow), so we shouldn't be getting this error at all?

.. _pytorch_native:

> Fine-tuning in native PyTorch

Reviewer: At this point in this tutorial, GPU memory is pretty full, I was using a Tesla V100 and I encountered problems.  I would suggest doing some cleanup, just so other people following along don't run into trouble.  Something like this

```py
del model
del pytorch_model
torch.cuda.empty_cache()
...
```

- remove the columns corresponding to values the model does not expect (here the :obj:`"text"` column)
- rename the column :obj:`"label"` to :obj:`"labels"` (because the model expect the argument to be named :obj:`labels`)
- set the format of the datasets so they return PyTorch Tensors instead of lists.

Our `tokenized_datasets` has one method for each of those steps:

.. code-block:: python

    tokenized_datasets = tokenized_datasets.remove_columns(["text"])
    tokenized_datasets = tokenized_datasets.rename_column("label", "labels")
    tokenized_datasets.set_format("torch")

    small_train_dataset = tokenized_datasets["train"].shuffle(seed=42).select(range(1000))
    small_eval_dataset = tokenized_datasets["test"].shuffle(seed=42).select(range(1000))

Now that this is done, we can easily define our dataloaders:

.. code-block:: python

    from torch.utils.data import DataLoader

    train_dataloader = DataLoader(small_train_dataset, shuffle=True, batch_size=8)
    eval_dataloader = DataLoader(small_eval_dataset, batch_size=8)

Next, we define our model:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification

>     model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("bert-base-cased", num_labels=2)

Reviewer: In the old tutorial, we froze the base layers with this

```py
for param in model.base_model.parameters():
    param.requires_grad = False
```

It might be worth mentioning or elaborating what is going on here: that the model that is downloaded already has its base layers frozen except for the head?  

I did a sanity check and it actually seems like the model **is completely unfrozen**?  So perhaps this step is missing?

```py
>>> for l in model.base_model.parameters():
...     print(l.requires_grad)
True
True
True
True
True
True
True
...
```

Author: Yes Transformers models get better results when being fine-tuned as a whole. There is no freezing stage.

them.

However, we can instead apply these preprocessing steps to all the splits of our dataset at once by using the
:obj:`map` method:

.. code-block:: python

    def tokenize_function(examples):
        return tokenizer(examples["text"], padding="max_length", truncation=True)

    tokenized_datasets = raw_datasets.map(tokenize_function, batched=True)

You can learn more about the map method or the other ways to preprocess the data in the 🤗 Datasets `documentation
<https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/>`__.

Next we will generate a small subset of the training and validation set, to enable faster training:

.. code-block:: python

    small_train_dataset = tokenized_datasets["train"].shuffle(seed=42).select(range(1000)) 
    small_eval_dataset = tokenized_datasets["test"].shuffle(seed=42).select(range(1000)) 
    full_train_dataset = tokenized_datasets["train"]
    full_eval_dataset = tokenized_datasets["test"]

In all the examples below, we will always use :obj:`small_train_dataset` and :obj:`small_eval_dataset`. Just replace
them by their `full` equivalent to train or evaluate on the full dataset.

.. _trainer:

> Fine-tuning in PyTorch with Trainer

Reviewer 2: You prefer `with Trainer` to `with the Trainer`?

Author: We're already at two lines in the navbar, so let's even go for `with the Trainer API`

is performing however as by default, there is no evaluation during training, and we didn't tell the
:class:`~transformers.Trainer` to compute any metrics. Let's have a look on how to do that now!

To have the :class:`~transformers.Trainer` compute and report metrics, we need to give it a :obj:`compute_metrics`
function that takes predictions and labels (grouped in a namedtuple called :class:`~transformers.EvalPrediction`) and
return a dictionary with string items (the metric names) and float values (the metric values).

The 🤗 Datasets library provides an easy way to get the common metrics used in NLP with the :obj:`load_metric` function.
here we simply use accuracy. Then we define the :obj:`compute_metrics` function that just convert logits to predictions
(remember that all 🤗 Transformers models return the logits) and feed them to :obj:`compute` method of this metric.

.. code-block:: python

    import numpy as np
    from datasets import load_metric

    metric = load_metric("accuracy")

    def compute_metrics(eval_pred):
        logits, labels = eval_pred
        predictions = np.argmax(logits, axis=-1)
        return metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)

> To check if this works on practice, let's create a new :class:`~transformers.Trainer` with our fine-tuned model:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check if this works in practice, let's create a new :class:`~transformers.Trainer` with our fine-tuned model:
```
